README.md, before:

[![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

A curated list of everything OpenStreetMap.

## Table of Contents

* [Editors](#editors)
* [Web Apps](#web-apps)
* [Public APIs](#public-apis)
* [Tools](#tools)
    * [C/C++](#cc)
    * [Javascript](#javascript)
    * [Python](#python)
    * [Java](#java)
* [Maps](#maps)
* [Articles](#articles)


## Editors

- [iD](http://www.openstreetmap.org/edit?editor=id) The easy-to-use browser editor.
- [JOSM](https://josm.openstreetmap.de) An extensible desktop editor.

## Web Apps

- [overpass-turbo](http://overpass-turbo.eu) A web based data mining tool for OpenStreetMap using Overpass API.
- [osmcha](https://osmcha.mapbox.com) Detects suspicious OSM changesets
- [hdyc](http://hdyc.neis-one.org) Shows user contribution
- [whodidit](http://zverik.osm.rambler.ru/whodidit/) Changesets analyzer
- [achavi](https://overpass-api.de/achavi/) Augmented change viewer
- [changeset-map](http://osmlab.github.io/changeset-map/) Changeset visualizer
- [last-week-on-osm](https://tyrasd.github.io/latest-changes/#2/15.0/-15.0) Explore latest changesets

## Public APIs 

- [overpass](http://overpass-api.de) The Overpass API is a read-only API that serves up custom selected parts of the OSM map data.
- [osm.mazdermind](https://osm.mazdermind.de/replicate-sequences/) Maps Timestamp to replicate sequences.
- [planet.osm](http://planet.osm.org) Dumnps minutely/weekly/yearly/full of osm data.
- [bbbike](https://extract.bbbike.org) Allows extracting of areas from planet.osm.

## Tools

### C/C++
- [libosmium](https://github.com/osmcode/libosmium) Fast and flexible C++ library for working with OpenStreetMap data.
- [OSRM](https://github.com/Project-OSRM/osrm-backend)  A routing engine.

### Javascript
- [iD](https://github.com/openstreetmap/iD) The easy-to-use OpenStreetMap editor in JavaScript. 
- [node-osmium](https://github.com/osmcode/node-osmium) Node wrapper for libosmium.
- [changeset-map](https://github.com/osmlab/changeset-map) Visualise a changeset

### Python
- [overpass-wrapper](https://github.com/mvexel/overpass-api-python-wrapper) A wrapper around the OpenStreetMap Overpass API.
- [osmapi](https://github.com/metaodi/osmapi) Python wrapper for the OpenStreetMap API 
- [osmcha](https://github.com/willemarcel/osmcha) Python package to detect suspicious OSM changesets 
- [osmnx](https://github.com/gboeing/osmnx) visualize street networks
- [OpenMapTiles](https://openmaptiles.org/) Set of tool for self-hosted vector maps and map services with labels in more than 50 languages.
- [OSMNames](http://osmnames.org/) Geocoding tool ranking places according to the corresponding Wikipedia page popularity
### Java 
- [OpenTripPlanner](https://github.com/opentripplanner/OpenTripPlanner) An open source multi-modal trip planner
- [JOSM](https://josm.openstreetmap.de) An extensible dekstop editor.

## Maps

## Articles

## Communities

Commit message:

added stamen terrain classic to maps list

README.md, after:

[![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

A curated list of everything OpenStreetMap.

## Table of Contents

* [Editors](#editors)
* [Web Apps](#web-apps)
* [Public APIs](#public-apis)
* [Tools](#tools)
    * [C/C++](#cc)
    * [Javascript](#javascript)
    * [Python](#python)
    * [Java](#java)
* [Maps](#maps)
* [Articles](#articles)


## Editors

- [iD](http://www.openstreetmap.org/edit?editor=id) The easy-to-use browser editor.
- [JOSM](https://josm.openstreetmap.de) An extensible desktop editor.

## Web Apps

- [overpass-turbo](http://overpass-turbo.eu) A web based data mining tool for OpenStreetMap using Overpass API.
- [osmcha](https://osmcha.mapbox.com) Detects suspicious OSM changesets
- [hdyc](http://hdyc.neis-one.org) Shows user contribution
- [whodidit](http://zverik.osm.rambler.ru/whodidit/) Changesets analyzer
- [achavi](https://overpass-api.de/achavi/) Augmented change viewer
- [changeset-map](http://osmlab.github.io/changeset-map/) Changeset visualizer
- [last-week-on-osm](https://tyrasd.github.io/latest-changes/#2/15.0/-15.0) Explore latest changesets

## Public APIs

- [overpass](http://overpass-api.de) The Overpass API is a read-only API that serves up custom selected parts of the OSM map data.
- [osm.mazdermind](https://osm.mazdermind.de/replicate-sequences/) Maps Timestamp to replicate sequences.
- [planet.osm](http://planet.osm.org) Dumnps minutely/weekly/yearly/full of osm data.
- [bbbike](https://extract.bbbike.org) Allows extracting of areas from planet.osm.

## Tools

### C/C++
- [libosmium](https://github.com/osmcode/libosmium) Fast and flexible C++ library for working with OpenStreetMap data.
- [OSRM](https://github.com/Project-OSRM/osrm-backend)  A routing engine.

### Javascript
- [iD](https://github.com/openstreetmap/iD) The easy-to-use OpenStreetMap editor in JavaScript.
- [node-osmium](https://github.com/osmcode/node-osmium) Node wrapper for libosmium.
- [changeset-map](https://github.com/osmlab/changeset-map) Visualise a changeset

### Python
- [overpass-wrapper](https://github.com/mvexel/overpass-api-python-wrapper) A wrapper around the OpenStreetMap Overpass API.
- [osmapi](https://github.com/metaodi/osmapi) Python wrapper for the OpenStreetMap API
- [osmcha](https://github.com/willemarcel/osmcha) Python package to detect suspicious OSM changesets
- [osmnx](https://github.com/gboeing/osmnx) visualize street networks
- [OpenMapTiles](https://openmaptiles.org/) Set of tool for self-hosted vector maps and map services with labels in more than 50 languages.
- [OSMNames](http://osmnames.org/) Geocoding tool ranking places according to the corresponding Wikipedia page popularity
### Java
- [OpenTripPlanner](https://github.com/opentripplanner/OpenTripPlanner) An open source multi-modal trip planner
- [JOSM](https://josm.openstreetmap.de) An extensible dekstop editor.

## Maps
- [Terrain Classic](https://github.com/stamen/terrain-classic) World-wide CartoCSS port of Stamen's classic terrain style.

## Articles

## Communities
